I was gonna get this bad boy off hello
bees hi bees in London it's estimated
there are around 500 managed beehives in
people's gardens and on rooftops today
we're going to try and get inside the
hive mind of an urban bee colony all
around the world humans love the sweet
taste of honey whether it's in our urban
jungles or the depths of the Congo
rainforest people often go to
extraordinary lengths to get their hands
on it
Chris from bands and web is one of
London's urban beekeepers managing over
40 hives across the city and producing
gallons of honey every year so who
better to introduce me to this urban
colony right so we know the Queen is in
there somewhere so what are we looking
for well the Queen she's not marked
you'll probably have a few bees go
sniffing around here following around
and hopefully she'll be laying eggs and
she should be in this middle bit you
have to keep your eyes peeled
spitting asthma we've just taken out one
of the frames from the middle of the
hive and we have spotted the cream and
you can see her because she's a little
bit longer and her abdomen is sticking
out so people might think that because
these bees are being kept in a city that
there be a lack of places for them to
forage but is that just not the case or
conversely people think that these don't
do well in cities but because there's
year-round food for them they can do
better than they do in the countryside
I keep bees in the countryside and one
of their main food sources is the
rapeseed and we find that it gives a
really strong tasting honey what does
this urban bee honey taste like it's
slightly different all around the city
though we've got some down in South
London and someone described that as
elderflower and champagne in South
London in South London well in
Kensington so is perfect because it's a
medley of various different pollens and
nectars it's quite hard to put your
finger on it but generally they're very
floral and light if one of the foragers
is out and finds an amazing source of
food how do they communicate where a
good foraging sausage iMagic
they do something called the waggle
dance that somehow tells the other bees
where to fly in what direction it's
serious magic now this is where things
get a little bit complicated with the
waggle dance but bear with me okay so
the sun's behind the clouds today but we
all know that the Sun rises in the east
and it sets in the west bees when
communicating a good food source will
use the sun's location in the sky as a
way of orientating themselves so let's
say they come back to the hive they
found a really good juicy spot to forage
and it's four o'clock in the afternoon
the Sun would be here in the sky just
behind that building now if then drop
the Sun to the horizon and draw an
imaginary line between me the hive and
that spot this line will then give the
bees a vertical line on a frame inside
the hive it's a little bit like this
in point on a dance floor now if this
really good source of pollen and nectar
is five degrees to the right of the
location of the Sun at this point in the
day that is the angle that the bees will
do the waggle dance on if the food
source is directly in line with the Sun
in the sky
they'll just dance straight up on a
vertical what's more the bees are
communicating far more information than
just the direction of the food source
using the waggle dance the harder and
more intently they waggle the better the
food source and the longer they waggle
for generally speaking the further away
the bee would have to travel to get to
that source of pollen and nectar roughly
about one second of dancing equals one
kilometer of flight from the hive to the
food source so one be dancing all on its
own wouldn't be able to survive but when
you have a whole colony this hive mind
using intelligent behavior and the
waggle dance are able to find enough
food to support up to seventy thousand
bees and thrive we've made this film to
celebrate the release of planet Earth -
so to see some behind-the-scenes clips
then click on this link don't forget
subscribe and we'll see you soon
unplugged